Add more information about PubMed / PMC (#9)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/10.methods.md

We used the name as provided on the site.
We split names into first and last names as described for ISCB Fellows.

### Corresponding author extraction

We assumed that research advisors in the field would be those most likely to be invited for keynotes or to be honored as Fellows.

> Therefore, we collected corresponding author names to assess the composition of the field, weighted by research output as judged by publication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we collected corresponding author names to assess the composition of the field, weighted by the number of publications.
```

Both resources are provided by the U.S. National Library of Medicine and index scholarly articles.
PubMed contains a record for every article published in journals it indexes (30 million records total circa 2020) and provides abstracts but not fulltext.
PMC, which provides fulltext access, does not contain every article from every journal (5.9 million records total circa 2020).
In general, open access journals will deposit their entire catalog to PMC (e.g. _BMC Bioinformatics_ & _PLOS Computational Biology_), while toll access journals (e.g. _Bioinformatics_) will only deposit articles when funders require it.
Since PMC requires publishers to submit fulltext articles in a structured XML format, the machine-readability and breadth of metadata in PMC is often superior to PubMed.

Of PMC's 5.9 million fulltext articles, only 2.7 million are part of the "[Open Access Subset](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/tools/openftlist/)" which allows for downloading the structured fulltext as opposed to just viewing the article online.

> Luckily however, since we only cared about authorship information, we were able to download structured frontmatter (rather than fulltext) records from PMC's [OAI-PMH service](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/tools/oai/), such that we were not limited to just the OA Subset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, authorship information does not require full text records.
We were able to download structured frontmatter (rather than fulltext) records from PMC's [OAI-PMH service](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/tools/oai/), so we were not limited to just the Open Access Subset.
```

For PubMed, we used the E-Utilities APIs.
For PubMed records, we were able to extract author names (first and last) and order.
For PMC, we were able to extract these fields as well as whether each author was a corresponding author.
To automate and generalize these tasks, we created the [pubmedpy](https://github.com/dhimmel/pubmedpy) Python package.

We selected three journals to represent the field of bioinformatics and computational biology, including two ISCB Partner Journals (_PLOS Computational Biology_ and _Bioinformatics_) and one field-specific journal that is not a partner (_BMC Bioinformatics_).

> From PubMed, we compiled a catalog of 29,755 journal articles published from when each journal was established through 2019.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We compiled a catalog of 29,755 journal articles published from when each journal was established through 2019 from PubMed.
```

We were able to retrieve authorship information for all but 6 of these articles using PubMed or PubMed Central.

To determine corresponding authors for an article, we relied on PMC data if available (20,696 articles) and otherwise fellback to PubMed data (9,053 articles).
Almost all articles without PMC data were from _Bioinformatics_, since its a "selective deposit" rather than "full paricipation" journal in PMC.

> If coded corresponding author status was not available (120 articles from PMC and all articles from PubMed), we assumed the last author was corresponding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assumed the last author was corresponding when coded corresponding author status was not available (120 articles from PMC and all articles from PubMed).
```

> We performed further analysis on PMC authors to learn more about corresponding author practices.

Reviewer: The first part of this paragraph is a bit resultsy but it's more of a justification for the latter part of the paragraph, so I think it's fine. Someone may want us to change where it is but we can cross that bridge if we get there.
